Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on organizing your job search.
So we're going to discuss various tools for organizing your job search and we're also going to discuss
job funnels.
So first off staying organized is a fundamental part of a good job search.
There's lots of tools out there available free to use.
So I want to give you some options to choose from.
First off just general spreadsheets attached in the resource portion of this lecture is this PowerPoint
presentation and an Excel template for you.
There's also a Google spreadsheet version and you can check out the resource links or go to this link
right here.
After downloading this PowerPoint so is going to take a quick tour of the spreadsheet provided for you
.
All right.
Here we are at the Google spreadsheet version of the Excel and the Google spreadsheet version are the
same thing.
So we're going to go over one of them here.
First tab is your job search long.
So here I'm actually very zoomed in so you can see that basically you're going to put in the job you
applied for the position title company name.
And if you have a contact maybe you contact that a recruiter or through networking you've got to contact
that name here.
Then there's a phone number fax e-mail address mailing address Web site.
But more importantly here's which really want to fill out date resumes submitted how you submit your
resume when you get to that portion if you send references or not how you heard about the job and a
job description for you to remember what the actual job's about.
Comments as well.
And then the status of the application.
There's also a tab for networking contacts.
So after you go to a networking event this might be a good thing to fill out.
Truly similar but basically just holding contact information that they contacted and then comments and
lead titles.
After that there's the interviews tab.
So once you actually book an interview you can say your interview date your interview name and whether
or not you sent thank yous and comments on how the interview went.
And then the last tab is just career Web sites.
If you've checked the Web site you username your password on the Web site you posted your resume.
They posted your cover letter and then comments for yourself.
So you should really really use this log.
I highly recommend that you have to use some sort of organization when you're searching for jobs.
So this Google spreadsheet template is provided and so is an Excel template of the same format.
So check out the resources in this lecture for links to those.
Let's go ahead and go back to the presentation.
All right.
So he took a tour of the spreadsheet.
One of the resource I want you to be aware of are some Web sites.
So there's a couple of Web sites that help you track your job progress or your job search progress.
That is one of them's not a job hero.
You can check it out.
A Go job here dot com.
Let's go ahead and take a look at it in our browser.
So this is what job here looks like.
Again these Web sites tend to come and go.
So make sure you check the resources in the picture in case job hero ever goes down or is out of business
.
We'll have the most up to date information in the resource section of this lecture.
But for now you might want to check a job here.
Basically a dashboard that will save jobs from across the web and track your application process.
It tracks from web sites that says indeed glass Glassdoor dice Linked-In stack overflow and more.
So you might want to check it out.
Or again you can use a spreadsheet or whatever you prefer heading back to the presentation.
Let's now go ahead and discuss job funnels.
So you might be wondering why is it so important to track every aspect of my job search when I just
remember well most likely you're going to be applying for about 100 jobs.
That depends on where you live job availability or your experience etc. but most likely will be a number
in that range.
You have to really apply for a ton of jobs because there's a funnel to this job hunting can be extremely
competitive.
So make sure not to focus exclusively on well-known companies because there's plenty of great opportunities
at companies you haven't heard of yet as far as what your job funnel may look like you're probably going
to apply to somewhere between 100 and 150 straight up applications either through networking or people
you have through LinkedIn or even just on the job web site itself.
So the company web site then you can expect about 20 to 30 responses somewhere in that range depending
on your experience and your resume.
After that you'll probably get passed to about 10 to 15 phone screens.
Then about five to 10 onsite interviews and if the company happens to second stage onsite interviews
around 2 to 5 and after that you'll probably expect to have once a three offers compared to now again
this can really vary depending on who you are or what school you went to.
If it's a popular school for recruiters you may get way more offers and way more on site interviews
or if you have a lot more experience you may get better access for interviews so this could really vary
the pending on who you are.
So just keep that in mind.
But most likely you'll have to do more applications than you think you're going to have to do.
So on that note make sure to not get discouraged.
You're already on the right path by taking this course so that all being said go ahead and check out
the resources for this lecture to get all the links and all the templates and I'll see at the next lecture
.
Thanks everyone.